Welcome to Snow Sight, a game by the Jesuit Game Design club!

Snow Sight is a multiplayer game where players have a snowball fight in a 3D world. What makes Snow Sight unique is that all of the players are invisible: you can only see players' footprints.



How to Install:

Download Snow Sight from tinyurl.com/SnowSight
Unzip the file and put its contents in a new folder.
Make sure you have Java 8 installed.
Double-click SnowSight.jar to play the game!



How to Play:

When you start up Snow Sight, you appear in the menu screen. Press the Play button to play the game. You can play singleplayer by clicking on a level, or you can connect to a server by pressing Join a Server and typing the server's ip address.

Snow Sight uses standard 3D controls. Move the mouse to look in a direction, and use WASD to move the character around. Use the Space Bar to jump, and you can hold Shift to walk slowly.

You can throw a snowball by pressing left-click. You only have three snowballs to throw, as shown in the window at the lower-right of the screen. Once you run out, pick up new snowballs by pressing right-click.

If you hit another player with a snowball, they are tagged by the snowball and you gain a point. Your name and score are shown at the right of the screen.

You can talk to other players on the server by pressing T, then typing a message. You can change your in-game name by pressing T, then typing the phrase, "\name [your new name]".



Tips and Tricks:

 - Players are invisible to each other. However, players leave a trail of footprints while on the ground and a trail of smoke while in the air.

 - Most of the levels have secret passageways and hidden areas. Explore the whole level to find new tricks.

 - You only have a limited number of snowballs before you must pick up more. Throw snowballs carefully.



How to Edit Levels:

You can edit levels by pressing the Editor button in the menu screen instead of the Play button. Again, you can edit a level in either singleplayer or in multiplayer. If you want to edit a level over multiplayer, make sure that everyone has the same version of the level file.

The level editor uses similar controls as the actual game, except that you can fly and move through blocks. Hold the Space Bar to ascend, and hold the Shift key to descend. You can press Tab to switch between flying slowly and flying very quickly.

You can place blocks by pressing right-click, and you can destroy blocks by pressing left-click. You can change which block is currently selected to place with the scroll wheel or with the arrow keys.

Holding the middle-mouse button on a block will change its type without placing or destroying any blocks. Pressing Q on a block will change the currently selected block to that type.

The editor has a fill tool that lets you place large numbers of blocks at once. The fill tool fills a 3D box with the same type of cube. To use the fill tool, press F on one corner of the box to fill. Then, right-click on the other corner of the box to place blocks, or left-click on the other corner of the box to destroy blocks.

The level will automatically save every minute. To save the level manually, press the Enter key. Old versions of each level you edit are automatically stored in the folder /levels/autosaves/.



For Advanced Users:

You can start a server by running the Server.jar file. You can change which level the server runs by editing the server_map.txt file. If you are not connecting over LAN, servers must port-forward the port 51234. (If you've ever set up a Minecraft server, it works in the same way.)

You can create new levels by pressing the Create a Level button in the main menu. To make your new level appear as an option in the game, add it to the level_list.txt file.

You can create new blocks by putting their textures in the /sprites/blocks/ folder, then adding the name of the texture to the block_list.txt file.

Both of these changes will work over multiplayer only if all clients who connect to the server have the same level files and texture files.
